scripts: nrf_profiler: Introduce README.rst (#24332)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: scripts/nrf_profiler/README.rst

.. _nrf_profiler_script:

nRF Profiler host tools

> #######################

Author: It's a set of multiple Python scripts for various purposes - that's why I used name `tools`

The visual output can look as follows:

.. figure:: ../../doc/nrf/images/app_event_manager_profiling_sample.png
   :scale: 50 %
   :alt: Example of nRF Profiler host tools visualization

   Example of nRF Profiler host tools visualization

Profiled events visualization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The nRF Profiler events are visualized in the following way in the plot:

* ``Red dot`` indicates submission of a custom nRF Profiler event or an Application Event Manager event.
* ``Blue vertical rectangle`` indicates processing of the Application Event Manager event (not used for custom nRF Profiler events).

Middle mouse button can be used to mark an event submission or processing for tracking, and to display the event data.

Using GUI while plotting
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The GUI also supports the following actions:

* The :guilabel:`Start/Stop` button can be used to pause or resume the real-time plot translation while plotting the data in real time (:file:`real_time_plot.py`).
* Scrolling on the plot using the mouse wheel zooms it in or out.

  * While plot translation is paused, scrolling zooms to the cursor location.

>   * While plot translation in active, scrolling zooms to the right edge of the plot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * While plot translation is active, scrolling zooms to the right edge of the plot.
```

> Additionally during pause or when plotting data from files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, during a pause or when plotting data from files:
```

* Click and drag with the left mouse button to pan the plot.
* Click the left or right mouse button to place a vertical line at the cursor location.
  When two lines are present, the application measures the time between them and displays it.

Merging profiling data from multiple devices
============================================

> The scripts allow to analyze data propagation among multiple embedded devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The scripts allow you to analyze data propagation among multiple embedded devices.
```

The :file:`merge_data.py` script combines data from ``test_p`` and ``test_c`` datasets into one dataset ``test_merged``.
It also provides clock drift compensation based on the synchronization events: ``sync_event_p`` and ``sync_event_c``.
The clock drift compensation is necessary to properly measure times between events coming from different devices as every device uses its own clock source.

> As command-line arguments, provide names of events used for synchronization for a Peripheral (``sync_event_p``) and a Central (``sync_event_c``), as well as names of datasets for the Peripheral (``test_p``), the Central (``test_c``), and the merge result (``test_merged``).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As command-line arguments, provide the names of events used for synchronization for a Peripheral (``sync_event_p``) and a Central (``sync_event_c``), as well as names of datasets for the Peripheral (``test_p``), the Central (``test_c``), and the merge result (``test_merged``).
```

For example:

.. code-block:: console

   python3 merge_data.py test_p sync_event_p test_c sync_event_c test_merged

> The newly created dataset (``test_merged``) contains nRF Profiler events registered by both devices with compensated clock drift.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The newly created dataset (``test_merged``) contains the nRF Profiler events registered by both devices with compensated clock drift.
```

> It can be used for visualization or calculating statistics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use it  for visualization or calculating statistics.
```

.. note::
   The synchronization profiler events need to be periodically generated exactly at the same time on both devices.

>    The :ref:`nrf_profiler` library does not implement generating the synchronization events.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The :ref:`nrf_profiler` library does not implement the generation of the synchronization events.
```
